PO advice for next year (#67)
aau-giraf/wiki: advice_for_future_giraf/PO_advice.md

# PO advice for next year's PO group

This document serves as a list of advice for the next PO group based on the experience we gathered throughout the semester.
The PO group's main responsibility is to communicate with the customers of the GIRAF project and document this interaction.
It is important that the customers' reactions, opinions and wishes for the program are written down, as these are the foundation for all the decisions that you, as the PO group, will take.
In the following sections we provide an in-depth description of how we advice customer contact to be handled, and how the information gathered should be used.

## Customer contact

> In the start of the semester Ulrik will most likely schedule some meetings with the customers which everyone should attend.

Reviewer: Specify who 'everyone' is. Everyone in your group, everyone in the giraf project, or everyone in the entire world? :)

These serve to get the developers up to speed with what exactly the GIRAF project is and how the program is supposed to help people diagnosed with autism.

> Before these meetings it is a good idea to contact the customers to try and arrange a time for a more secluded meeting where you, as the PO group, can ask more specific questions regarding functionality and design of the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before these meetings it is a good idea to contact the customers to try and arrange a time for a meeting just for you, the PO group, where you can ask more specific questions regarding functionality and design of the program.
```

KISS principle.
Will often be more clear with simple english.

You can then start setting goals for what should be completed in the upcoming sprint, as well as for the whole semester.

As soon as you have the start and end dates for you sprints solidified, you should contact as many customers as you can with dates for usability testing. 
We did this by sending a mail to every customer involved in the project.
Remember to schedule usability testing after your releases so that you have a working program for the customers to test and evaluate.
It is important that you ask the customers to confirm that they will participate in these tests.
If they do not respond you should try and contact them to see if they simply forgot to reply.
We did this by calling them on their phones or by calling their workplaces.

It is very important to take notes and document all meetings with customers.
You will receive a lot of questions from the different developer groups about how functionality should be made and how it should look.
Therefore, it is always better to have written down exactly what the customers want so that you do not have to guess and then refactor later if you guessed wrong.

> An issue we faced was that we thought it would be sufficient for a guardian to copy activities one day at a time, but when we showed prototypes to the guardians they were very adamant on having the functionality be able to copy to multiple days at once.

Reviewer: Is this an example? If so, write that it is.

Another reason to document as much as possible, is that the users' feedback is the basis of all the user stories you are going to create.

## Creating user stories
As the PO group it is your responsibility to create user stories.
User stories are created based on requests from the users.
We structured user stories in the following way:
- As a ... I would like ..., so that ...

When creating a user story you should consider the amount of work that is needed for it to be completed, and whether or not it should be split up into multiple smaller user stories.

> We created user stories in the weekplanner repository on our GitHub page under the issue tab.

Reviewer: You hopefully made them in the relevant repositories :-)

This made it easy to organize as user stories are uniquely numbered and can be put into milestones.

> When creating a pull request it is easy to tag the user story so that it will be automatically closed when the pull request has been merged.

Reviewer: Tell them how or refer them to a link that does that. We will add a "How to: Create a Pull Request" section where this will be described.

Reviewer: If you're in doubt how you write anchors, look at this: https://gist.github.com/TobiasPalludan/5948533e97d260a04ea47e44ea7cc6b0

Author: I added a to-do in our Jira to update it when how to create a PR is added

Below is an image of a user story.

![User Story](images/userStory.PNG)

As you can see on the figure, the user story has the number 88 and was created by the user Eduardsen.
It has the tags "priority: highest" and "type: feature" and is under the milestone called sprint 2.
In the right hand side you can see the profile picture of the developer currently assigned to implementing this user story.
Another approach to creating user stories is when developer groups create feature requests.
In most cases these need to be rewritten into user stories if the problem they are describing has not been formulated correctly or adequately.
When creating user stories, take special care to ensure that your user stories are not written ambiguously and, if so, that you have the precise functionality that the users wanted explained within them.

## Prototypes
One of the important tasks of the PO group is to create and maintain prototypes.
Prototypes should conform to the design guide which can be found on the Github Wiki-page.
PO groups from previous years had been using PowerPoint to create prototypes, but we found this process to be slow and require a lot of repetitive work.

> Instead, we opted to use Adobe XD which reduced repetitive work and let us import the exact icons we used throughout the design guide, making the prototypes much more consistent.

Reviewer: What if they don't know that? Do you have anything that can get them started, or should they pick something they are familiar with?

Author: What do you mean? We're sharing the adobe XD file with the prototypes - but I just noticed that there's no link to it, which will be fixed asap.

Author: Fixed

Doing meetings with the customers you should show them the prototypes you have made since the last time you spoke.
It is a very good idea to get customer feedback so that you know you are headed in the right direction in relation to their expectations.

> It is also helpful if developers have a creative way to interpret a user story, as ut allows you to show them how it should be with certainty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also helpful if developers have a creative way to interpret a user story, as it allows you to show them how it should be with certainty.
```
